hello the day is November the 11th 2011
the time is 11:30 8 p.m. the following
is a demonstration of a briefcase solar
charger I believe it's rated at around
13 watts it's available for from Harbor
Freight tool company I'm going to zoom
in a little bit now on the user's guide
so you can see the model number and why
not that's the model number right there
as I said this unit is available from
Harbor Freight is designed to charge
batteries the solar charger is supposed
to put out between 18 and 24 volts which
of course varies according to the amount
of sunlight is present now presently I
have the unit the charger unit connected
to a fluke meter which you can see down
there and this is showing the voltage
output of the panel with fluorescent
lights in my office what I'm going to do
now is I'm going to turn on a 500 watt
halogen light and give you the light
meter reading on that light doing it
right now and that is 500 watts this is
my meter which is on the time 10 setting
for Lux I'm going to put it in front
and the meter reading is about 12,000
Lux at the moment you're reading it
upside out of course but it's reading
about 12,000 between about 10,000 and
12,000 lux now the normal sunlight
during the day is about 10,000 Lux on a
perfectly sunny day now the output to
the meter right now is quite high it's
reading approximately thirty-seven point
two eight volts now what I'm going to
connect the solar charger to is a nickel
metal hydride battery pack consisting of
sixteen batteries now the nickel metal
hydride batteries should give you a
reading of about 1.4 volts when they're
fully charged and anywhere from 1.2 or
below when they are discharged so in
this particular configuration you'll
know when the battery pack is charged
because it will read those two packs
combined together will read
approximately twenty two point four
volts when they're fully charged if
they're not fully charged you're going
to read way below that so what I'm going
to do now is I'm going to show you how
to connect that to the solar charger to
charge your batteries and I would
recommend that you use sixteen of the
double A's or equivalent connecting to
this charger on a sunny day so I'm going
to go ahead and rewire it right now to
connect to the batteries I'm gonna zoom
out a little bit you simply connect the
positive to the positive and the
negative to the night and now the
batteries are charging
and as I said you would leave them
connected in this configuration until
they are fully charged which could take
many many hours now go zoom back to you
can see the charger again and that hook
up by the way these two battery packs
are wired in series together and the
accessory items by the way that come
with the unit are shown there you have a
connection that goes to a portable
battery charger for like portable power
drivers like drills something that will
connect to cigarette lighter type
devices and also another cable that
connects to something using a plug like
you see right there so I hope you enjoy
the brief demonstration